=head1 NAME

Net::CLI::Interact::Manual::Cookbook - Miscellaneous recipes

=head1 Windows Support

The library works just fine under native windows (i.e use something like
Strawberry Perl - no need for cygwin), for Telnet, Serial and SSH connections.
However one additional step is required for you to have success:

You B<must> download the C<plink.exe> application, and pass its filesystem
location in the C<app> parameter to C<new()>. Do not try to use any other
Telnet or SSH programs (for instance the Windows bundled C<telnet>) - they
I<will not work>. Here's an example, if C<plink.exe> is on your Desktop:

 my $s = Net::CLI::Interact->new(
     personality => "cisco",
     transport => "Telnet",
     (Net::CLI::Interact::Transport::is_win32() ?
         (app => "$ENV{HOMEPATH}\\Desktop\\plink.exe") : () ),
 );

=head1 Unix Support

The library works fine on most Unix platforms. It will try to use the native
C<telnet>, C<ssh> (openssh) and C<cu> programs for Telnet, SSH and Serial
connections, respectively. If you want to use another application, pass it in
the C<app> parameter to C<new>.

In some Unix environments there can be zombie child processes left around
after running your script. If this happens, set the C<reap> option, like so:

 my $s = Net::CLI::Interact->new(
     personality => "cisco",
     transport => "Telnet",
     connect_options => {
        reap => 1,
    },
 );

=head1 Running Commands

=head2 Simple Commands

Simply send the command you wish to execute to the session. If not already
done, a connection to the device will be established automatically:

 $s->cmd('show ip int br');

Normally this matches against a default prompt, which has been discovered
automatically, or set by you:

 $s->set_prompt('user_prompt');

It's also possible to pass in a custom prompt for this command only:

 $s->cmd('show ip int br', { match => qr/special prompt>$/ });

However be aware that a side effect of this is that the custom prompt
becomes the new default prompt for subsequent commands or macros.

=head2 Macro Commands

Call a predefined Macro from the phrasebook using this method:

 $s->macro('write_mem');

Sometimes the Macro needs parameters:

 $s->macro('to_priv_exec', { params => ['my_password'] });

You can't really create a Macro on the fly very easily, but with suitable use
of C<cmd()>, C<set_prompt()>, and the C<match> option to C<cmd()> it's
possible to achieve some simple flexibility.

=head1 Reconfiguring On-the-Fly

=head2 Phrasebook

It's possible to load a new phrasebook by the following method, which must be
passed at least the name of the personality:

 $s->set_phrasebook({ personality => 'ios' });

You can pass any options which the
L<Phrasebook|Net::CLI::Interact::Phrasebook> module itself would take.

=head2 Prompt

The current prompt can be changed by passing the name of the new Prompt as it
is known by the phrasebook:

 $s->set_prompt('name');

If you want to test whether the current prompt matches a diffrent named Prompt
from the phrasebook, this method can be used:

 $s->prompt_looks_like('name');

=head1 Phrasebook Libraries

You can override or add to the device command phrasebooks which ship with this
distribution. To start with, check the shipped dictionary for your device's
current level of support, at L<Net::CLI::Interact::Manual::Phasebook>.

If you want to add either some prompts or macros, first read the documentation
for these systems at L<Net::CLI::Interact::Phrasebook>.

All phrasebooks can inherit from others, and this is based on their location
in a filesystem tree. See the phrasebooks bundled with the
L<Net::CLI::Interact> distribution for an example of this in action.

If you wish to override a phrasebook entry, simply set C<add_library> in your
code, and then create a file at the same relative point beneath that library
directory as the original version shipped with the C<Net::CLI::Interact>
module, for example "C<< <add_library>/cisco/pixos/pixos7/my_phrases >>".

The file itself (C<my_phrases>) does not have to be the same name as the
original, and you can have more than one file if it helps. Only the directory
is matched against your chosen C<personality> and then all files in there, and
higher in the C<add_library> tree, and distribution C<library> tree, are
loaded.

To check what phrasebooks and prompts/macros are loaded, run your script with
debug level set to C<notice>. The easiest way to do this is by setting the
environment variable C<NCI_LOG_AT=notice>.

=head1 Phrasebook Entries

=head2 Prompts

These are nothing more than named regular expressions:

 prompt configure
     match /\(config[^)]*\)# ?$/

=head2 Macros

This example waits for the device to ask "[startup-config]?" and then responds
with the text C<startup-config>. Remember, there is an implicit C<match>
statement added at the end, which is the current prompt.

 macro copy_run_start
     send copy running-config startup-config
     match /Destination filename \[startup-config\]\?$/
     send startup-config

To send instead a "press" of the Return key (I<output record separator>), use:

 macro write_mem
     send copy running-config startup-config
     match /Destination filename \[startup-config\]\?$/
     send ''

To instead allow the user to pass in the file name, use a C<sprintf> format.

 macro save_to_file
     send copy running-config startup-config
     match /Destination filename \[startup-config\]\?$/
     send %s

The user I<must> then pass a parameter to the C<macro> call, even if it's an
empty string:

 $s->macro('save_to_file', { params => ['file_name'] });
 # or
 $s->macro('save_to_file', { params => [''] });

=head2 Continuations

These are Macros which start with a match instead of a send:

 macro more_pages
     match / --More-- /
     send ' '

Note that the parameter of the C<send> is I<not> sent with a Return character
(I<output record separator>) appended.

When included in a macro, the continuation can be in-line, like this:

 macro show_ip_route
     send show ip route
     follow / --More-- / with ' '

=cut
